good news everyone I found a buyer for
the valuable workstations you've all
been using now how are we supposed to
get anything
done
lus I got new ones they're not brand new
but they're brand exactly I mean who
needs a brand new computer when a
perfectly good older workstation that
someone might deem to be obsolete is
still perfectly fine for 99% of tasks if
you aren't playing the latest AAA
releases or editing 4K video there's no
reason that an older sixth or even
fourth gen processor with a reasonable
amount of RAM and an era appropriate GPU
shouldn't work for basic work so to find
out we had three Brave volunteers give
up their high-end systems for about a
month swapping them for more Antiquated
options just like I gave up this more
Antiquated segue to our sponsor pulseway
easily manage and monitor your systems
from anywhere with pulse Way's instant
alerts and auto remediation all you need
is your phone so get away from your desk
and start your free trial of pulseway at
the link down below when we checked out
the treasure box PC we were pleasantly
surprised by the quality of the
refurbished Dell Optiplex that we
received so we reached out to Sky Tech
Global who agreed to send us a few
workstations for this project our only
requirements were that we wanted minimal
downtime enough iio to use our existing
peripherals and the ability to review 4K
footage from our network storage Drive I
feared that using this old computer it
would just be really slow like you'd
click on things and just have to wait
for them to happen but the snappiness is
pretty much all I feared because I don't
do a lot of heavy lifting with the PC
it's glorified Chromebook I honestly
wasn't too worried about it I don't have
to look through a roll too often so I
don't actually need that good of a
computer I'm mostly just opening word in
Chrome biggest problem I figured was
going to be uh reviewing footage cuz
those are pretty big files and usually
take a lot of of transfer speed really
to get them to play properly even on a
brand new computer I was actually really
looking forward to seeing how much of a
difference I would feel on the CPU side
because there's been a mad increase in
terms of raw CPU performance over the
last 10 years and uh I haven't used
anything that old in a long long time so
I was really looking forward to seeing
how bad would be I don't see the big
deal businesses are right now divesting
of machines that have CPUs as recent as
sixth generation Intel quad core ddr4
support I'm even talking native support
for nvme boot drives and that last one
is super handy because it allowed us to
just pop the drives out of our current
PCS and toss them into these with little
to no downtime now we could use a
workaround to boot from a pcie adapter
on older Generations something that we
actually did with the latest $69 PC
build but our PCI slots as it turns out
are a valuable commodity we're going to
touch on that later our preferred
machine for this project was the Dell
Optiplex 7040 ideally with a core i5
6500 CPU 16 gigs of RAM and a dual
display port GPU but given these R
refurb systems and we're Beggars we
didn't get to be choosers so we ended up
with some HP proes 600 g3s and our gpus
were a complete mixed bag the Radian rx5
50 is perfect for our use case but for
office use an older 750 Ti or gt1030
could be a problem DVI that would
require a monitor downgrade what worked
well that you didn't expect to work well
honestly the whole thing using this
computer was not very disruptive for me
I did notice it the first day I booted
it up and I was like huh why is this
taking longer than I'm used to oh right
Tanner gave me this crappy computer
pretty much the computer in general I
had complaints I sent Tanner a bunch of
complaints um
cuz every now and then it just like
wouldn't do something quickly enough and
it would drive me crazy but overall it
it was actually decent it was mostly
just slower and uh when you're used to
computers being like Lightning Fast um
that gets frustrating basically
everything worked pretty well there was
you know hiccups here and there that
were probably unavoidable due to the the
speed of the machine and just not
implementing all the current
features but overall things were pretty
smooth
in spite of wanting to kill you a few
times now obviously even if we have an
older GPU out of the box that can be
upgraded but we need to watch our power
budget when converting an older station
for modern use a few of the machines we
received with lesser gpus also contained
correspondingly lesser power supplies
and we just weren't comfortable
installing more power hungry modern gpus
to make matters worse clearance for
larger gpus can be a big challenge in
these kinds of systems depending on
Drive Bay locations luckily the HPS
allowed us to pop the drive cages out
tooless no LTT screwdriver required this
time the other issue newer gpus
presented was just how many pcie slots
they took up we really wanted to have 10
gig networking working so that raw
footage from the server could easily be
accessed it helps out the editors a lot
when we can scrub through and flag
important moments or unneeded Clips
playback of raw footage if we were doing
like a big you know 20 plus gig file 4K
whatever it would be real choppy uh
especially actually after the network
card died you put in I think a 10 gig
card initially and that crapped out kind
of halfway through but even with that it
was still a little choppy and then after
that things definitely took a turn for
the worst and I just didn't touch big
files unfortunately it doesn't matter
how fast your Nick is if your processor
can't keep up with it aside from a few
short bursts our experimental
workstations were effectively limited to
gigabit speeds which made playback a
little bit choppy and unfortunately that
wasn't the end of our issues so parac
just kind of stopped working I had to
get tanner to go and just uh completely
reboot my computer and launch parseek
because we encountered a weird lock
screen bug that I was never running into
before and I've been using Park on this
machine well I guess my own machine uh
for the last 3 years just fine we
switched to the oplex and all of a
sudden we encounter an issue and uh that
was incredibly frustrating because I'm
pretty sure my computer was swapped out
when the snowstorm happened so I
couldn't do a whole lot and it was very
frustrating especially on YouTube I
found there was a lot of problems with
playback there the screen would just
flash black randomly like weird kind of
driver acceleration issues in the
browser browser plugins were another
actually where we use uh something
called one page to capture a web page
that worked maybe one% of the time on
the old computer and I don't really know
why I had two or three main issues that
were recurring first one um the
headphone jack on the front of the
machine is is just that it's not a combo
Jack it seems to just be a headphone
jack so I found out in the first meeting
like nobody can hear me uh that was
annoying the other thing was my Ram kept
maxing out when I had launched a bunch
of tabs in Chrome and part of our job is
opening a lot of tabs and doing a ton of
different research and making sure you
keep everything uh sorted so you can
just kind of grab whatever little
section you need at any moment second
thing was intermittent like just little
click from my monitor don't know what
that was about I learned very quickly
just don't turn the computer off that
was kind of the key startup took for
ever like absolutely forever and
normally I do have a bunch of apps
starting up in the background Discord
teams it's normally fine now all of a
sudden it took like a couple minutes at
least even with an SSD it was driving me
nuts uh the first couple times I did
start up it was you know set it go
downstairs make a coffee whatever come
back and it might be good after that
that it was just leave it on permanently
and just lock the computer when you go
home and the third thing I didn't notice
until we had an outage at the office and
the internet was down so we had to use
Wi-Fi and I didn't have a Wi-Fi
card um actually there was Wi-Fi in
Bluetooth for each machine it was an
external dongle also interestingly it
has a speaker on the chassis so like if
I unplugged my headphones in the middle
of a meeting suddenly people could just
hear the meeting out in the room not
used to a tower having a speaker on it
that was funny I did not really find any
solution the uh lock screen bug I think
that was when I started caving and I was
like please give me my computer back I
need my computer back I think that I
just slowly encountered minor issue
after minor issue after minor issue of
just performance not being where I need
it to be I say My overall experience was
like out of 10 I'd give it like a seven
at least maybe even an eight it was fine
snappiness uh was totally workable I
think if I wasn't spoiled with the kind
of tech we have here it probably was as
good as what most people are using at
work if not better I would say day one
was a challenge getting things logged in
and just running in general by the end
of the process I could have kept going
if I had to everything worked worse but
not worse enough to be a deal breaker in
most cases it wasn't the worst
experience I think that we could
probably use Optiplex just ideally not
ones that are as old as these ones were
obviously if the budget is there for it
there is a reason that businesses
account for regular upgrades to their it
equipment and we're going to be going
back to our modern workstations but I
think what we've shown is that if you
need a PC for basic tasks even a 10year
old machine can get her done if you're
willing to be understanding of longer
wait times and the odd bug which got me
thinking about our own approach to
Rolling Out systems to our staff I mean
compared to a more modern obviously pre
built system do we really need high-end
motherboards and Overkill cooling or
could we just equip our staff with
modern versions of these you know basic
computers and let them age out
gracefully please don't ever give me an
Optiplex again I don't think we quite
need the computers that we have
currently at least I don't but I do need
something that's newer give me like a
13100 like I don't like give me or give
me like a 13400 Max I don't need
anything all that crazy I don't need
anything overclockable as well I mean
certainly some people like our editors
or the folks who do CAD as part of their
daily work are going to need more
powerful systems for tools like Adobe
After Effects or solid works but those
are the exception to our standardized
workstations not the rule and yes there
are some folks on our team who are more
sensitive to even the smallest amounts
of system
leg why did you cut to me but with the
cost Savings of a pre-built there's room
to have a fleet of identical systems on
standby that can be swapped in without
the user ever even really noticing I get
it I'd notice so we aren't downgrading
at least not for now but I do think
maybe it's time that we stop assembling
every PC in house and only build the
ones that are really fun or Cutting Edge
or otherwise used for more demanding or
specific tasks what we will still
assemble in house every time though is
our Segways to our sponsor ground news
ground news is changing the way we read
and take in the news by giving us a
better understanding of media bias they
gather related articles from all over
the world so that you can compare
coverage on any topic making staying
informed so much easier which is
especially important with us election
season right around the corner ground
news even created an elections page so
you can check out blind spots in
reporting learn more about candidates
keep track of contentious issues and
more for example check out this story
about tech Moguls either running for
office or heavily donating to campaigns
in San Francisco just by comparing the
headlines you can tell that different
media Outlets have contrasting views on
this topic and most of these articles
came from very reliable sources even
with the evident blind spots so go to
ground. news/ Linus and get the full
picture on your favorite topics if you
click the link below or follow the QR
code on the screen you'll even get 40%
off their unlimited access Vantage plan
today if you guys like this video check
out the ridiculous treasure box PC that
video literally took Blood Sweat and
Tears to make all right any final notes
do it to somebody else next time